---
title: "282 - Cognitive Distance"
layout: essay.njk
date: "2024-12-15"
---

An easily forgotten factor that dominates our lives is the "Cognitive
Distance" between any two people, which I'll define as including
Differences in:

- Accumulated: Training and Experience

- Perspective: Language, Culture, and Philosophy

- Baseline: IQ and Health

One study discovered that someone with an IQ of 130 has just as much
difficulty communicating with an average person as someone with an IQ of
70. This illustrates the concept of Cognitive Distance, where the
difficulty is proportionate to distance within reasonable thresholds.

This distance also includes many separate and distinct variables, as it
can have many dimensions within any given challenge, some near, and some
far away when considered for any two people. While people tend to intuit
this distance to varying degrees, it remains too complex to calculate
casually. More intuitive people can also develop a sense of direction
(as well as distance), such as recognizing differences in mental health,
IQ, experience, or culture even under high levels of uncertainty.

For purposes of Collective Intelligence, the goal isn't to gather some
elite and groomed subset of high-IQ individuals, as they'd inhabit a
very small set of edge cases, most of which tend to be separated by even
greater cognitive distances than the separation of any one of those
individuals from the average person. While there is sure to be an
optimal level of granularity for any given use case, the space between
those edge cases requires coverage along as many of those dimensions as
possible in order to effectively reduce cognitive biases to minimum
levels.

Different domains also have very different "Hard problems", as
demonstrated by many innovation platforms having the Hard problems of
one domain easily solved by experts from an entirely different domain.
Likewise, cultures around the world show very different patterns of
adaptation to various global challenges, each culture with its own
respective strengths and weaknesses.

Collective Intelligence (CI) is synonymous with "Collective
Superintelligence" specifically because effective systems of CI
substantially reduce cognitive bias. Even dominantly unconscious systems
making use of groups of enthusiasts rather than experts have reliably
outperformed experts in this manner, such as the Swarm Intelligence
method that Unanimous AI became known for with their sports betting.

The earliest versions of our 8th-gen ICOM-based systems are strongly
influenced by and built around CI research, with many related use cases
in organizational management and governance. These systems may become
the first to truly map and bridge cognitive distances at large.
