---
title: "465 - Cognitive Biases Love Spurious Correlations"
layout: essay.njk
date: "2026-02-12"
description: "The assumptions of spurious proxies, and their downstream consequences"
---

One popular and pervasive cognitive bias today is to naively equate “income” (or wealth) with “success”, “competence” (domain or generalized), or even “qualification”. The newest generations commit this same error by associating “followers” or “views” with the same thing, each itself often a proxy for “income”.

The net result is that proxies of proxies…..of proxies to the Nth degree are increasingly being substituted for any actual data of causal substance. Just as “Correlation is not causation”, a correlation, of a correlation….of a correlation is so far removed from causation as to be a “spurious correlation”.

Worse still, cognitive biases make people “systematically wrong”, meaning that they are wrong in predictable ways, opening the door wide to equally systematic exploitation. This in turn allows for people who satisfy any of those spurious proxies, income, followers, etc., to misdirect masses of people in such a way as to armor their otherwise obvious and critical flaws.

Consider this in terms of “Population Dynamics”, where the population of a system changes and/or adapts over time, as it operates, selecting for some and against others. These system dynamics heavily favor malevolent entities, commonly known as “free riders” in the scientific literature.

Over time, those systematically exploiting the systematically wrong masses hoard more of the target resource, such as wealth or followers, raising the baseline performance of that exploitation. As that exploitation is further entrenched, the overall system degenerates, creating a downward spiral of increasing vulnerabilities and polarization, as the system further destabilizes.

This dynamic crowds out and starves out other entities, until those holding the target resources are almost exclusively “free riders”. Historically, this has happened many times before with wealth-type resources, and history has found no shortage of ways for disposing of despots.

However, the modern age introduces new challenges as the number of attack vectors for such cognitive traps has exploded. An increasing number of them are being guarded by Artificial Unintelligence “agents”, to the point where every malevolent entity with a search engine has integrated “AI answers” to pollute the top of the results.

Those who attempt to use human data, or “synthetic” (fake) data generated by systems that were themselves trained on human data, to perform ordinarily human tasks, fundamentally can’t afford to ignore human cognitive biases. They also can’t afford to ignore systems architecture, which dictates how those cognitive biases flow through a given system.

Those who study Collective Intelligence, one of the only known reliable methods for reducing the severity of cognitive biases, have a significant advantage in this, but even that is not enough.

It takes more intelligence to solve a problem than it does to create the same problem. Today the AI Domain has a million monkeys chained to typewriters, calling themselves “vibe coders”, “AI engineers”, or even “researchers”, each creating many problems. It will take overwhelming intelligence beyond anything that bunch could ever create to solve all of the problems that they’re directly responsible for.
